In the last lecture we moved our code to reach out to the web, to vuex, to the actions,
now I want to add a mutation which actually logs our user in, I'll name it auth user
and there, I will receive the state by default
and the second argument I will receive in this method will be my user data,
let's name it like this.
I will then set state ID token equal to user data and there, I expect to have a token property,
it will be our job to pass this on and state user ID, this should be user data, user ID let's say.
Now I expect these two fields on that user data object,
so its my job to pass it on,
we do pass it on by committing this auth user mutation in our then blocks for both signing up and signing
in,
so let's expand these and not only log something to the console, though I will still do that
but let's also commit auth user here.
Now there, I need to pass a javascript object and we just saw what we need to set up there, a token and
a user id property because I try to access this in the auth user mutation. The token field therefore
has to be extracted from the response,
the response is an axios response objects so we have a data field there
and then if you remember our earlier console logs, there will be an ID token field which is basically
the data sent back from firebase.
Now the user ID can also be extracted from res data and there, if you remember our earlier console logs,
firebase stores the user ID in a field named local ID,
these are the two fields I'm interested in for now.
I'll take this then block and use the exact same one for logging users in,
now with that we should have a way of storing the token,
let's see if that works. I'll go back to the application and create yet another user with test3, let's
say, let's add a valid password and hit submit, well we get the console log. To find out if it works, I'll
use my vue dev tools which I mentioned earlier in the course which allow me to look into the store,
if we access this and go to the store icon,
we see the auth user action was dispatched and our state now indeed knows an ID token and a user
ID. So this now works, we're storing this data for a signing in, let's go to sign, for signing up excuse
me,
let's now go to sign in and reload so that we lose our state because it's only stored in javascript
and that is lost if we reload the page.
Now let me login with a valid user here and this also works,
we commit auth user and we then do show or do store the token and the user ID.
So this is all working and that's great,
now the next step is to take advantage of this token, to append it to requests going out to protected
resources before we then later also dive into how we can utilize the token so that we actually change
what we see in the header, for example sign up sign in, that we only see that if we got no token.
So the next thing however is to make sure we attach the token to outgoing requests which need it,
let's do that in the next lecture.